2023/08/202308291341 Addressing Manuscript Reviews.md, before:

Tags :
Zettel :  20230829-1341
Status : #triage 

-----

# Addressing Manuscript Reviews

**Previous note:** [202308231511 Manuscript Feedback](202308231511%20Manuscript%20Feedback.md)

-----

### Questions & thoughts:

1. The authors must make it clear that these systems are only exact on either tree networks with no loops or on graphs with loops if the closures leave the loops intact. This needs to become obvious early on. 
*Section 2.2.3 Exact Moment closures: "Note that closures in our context are exact for graphs containing cycles only if cycles in the graph are preserved under closures \cite{kiss_2014} - we ensure this is the case by first identifying cut vertices in graphs, then introducing closures for terms referencing these vertices case-by-case, thereby preserving cycle structures."*
2. Pages two and three are very dry with literally endless definitions of well-known concepts. Can these be presented differently, maybe in a table or something? It just makes the paper very difficult to read with no linking text or motivation between the 11 definitions.  
3. I think some of the original papers say that the system needs to start in a pure state for the closures to make sense. Pure means that the system is one of its m^n configurations with probability one at time t=0. So, to me proposition 3.1 is not surprising.  
4. More importantly to my knowledge and memory, when one writes down equations, generate them, the nodes in the cut set when a closure is needed will never need to be in any other state than the S state. This is the beauty of the procedure, that these nodes are never needed to be in I or R states when a triple or bigger structure needs to be closed. If one wants to write down the full system with all possible configurations then yes, nodes in the cut set can be in S and I or R or some other state depending on the dynamics. However, in a bottom-up approach, writing equations for singles will involve pairs and pairs will involve triples but it turns out that cut vertices in triples or bigger structures will always be in the S state. One should say that for writing down equations a bottom-up approach is used as the top-down is too complex due to the high number of equations. Oh I see, this is said in Observation 3.7. 
Given this was still included, although is addressed in an observation, we have moved this observation earlier (just before Theorem 3.5) for readers with similar thoughts.
1. Is ER a good network to test this approach on? ER will have loops and the exact equations will not be exact, or are the cut-sets identified and the closures are done around them? 
Yes, they are for precisely the reason described - the procedure preserves cycle structures by first identifying cut-vertices _then_ closing where possible. This has been tested by generating and solving full and closed systems for several sets of initial conditions and comparing the results.
1. In figure 11, I would lot the y=x diagonal to show that in most cases the points lie below it. 
(1) no such figure but (2) assuming I know which one this is, doing this looks very strange because of the much different scales in the x and y axes, hence the colours to indicate which method was faster.
7. I was surprised to see no pseudocode or code to explain how the authors come up with the computational method/framework. I would add a whole section explaining this, what language and how the code works in general terms. At the end this is the main contribution of the paper.  
  

-----
 
**Consider:**


**Source:** 


**Reference:**

Commit message:

vault backup: 2023-09-05 10:24:12
Affected files:
.obsidian/workspace.json
2023/08/202308291341 Addressing Manuscript Reviews.md
2023/09/202309040814 Condensing Definitions.md

2023/08/202308291341 Addressing Manuscript Reviews.md, after:

Tags :
Zettel :  20230829-1341
Status : #triage 

-----

# Addressing Manuscript Reviews

**Previous note:** [202308231511 Manuscript Feedback](202308231511%20Manuscript%20Feedback.md)

-----

### Questions & thoughts:

1. The authors must make it clear that these systems are only exact on either tree networks with no loops or on graphs with loops if the closures leave the loops intact. This needs to become obvious early on. 
*Section 2.2.3 Exact Moment closures: "Note that closures in our context are exact for graphs containing cycles only if cycles in the graph are preserved under closures \cite{kiss_2014} - we ensure this is the case by first identifying cut vertices in graphs, then introducing closures for terms referencing these vertices case-by-case, thereby preserving cycle structures."*
2. Pages two and three are very dry with literally endless definitions of well-known concepts. Can these be presented differently, maybe in a table or something? It just makes the paper very difficult to read with no linking text or motivation between the 11 definitions.  
We are grateful for this suggestion. We have added a sentence signposting that these are standard definitions, which can be skipped by those familiar with them, and they have been condensed into paragraphs rather than standalone definitions, hopefully ensuring reading these is a more comfortable experience.
1. I think some of the original papers say that the system needs to start in a pure state for the closures to make sense. Pure means that the system is one of its m^n configurations with probability one at time t=0. So, to me proposition 3.1 is not surprising.
We agree that the proposition is not entirely surprising, however we believe it is an important addition 
1. More importantly to my knowledge and memory, when one writes down equations, generate them, the nodes in the cut set when a closure is needed will never need to be in any other state than the S state. This is the beauty of the procedure, that these nodes are never needed to be in I or R states when a triple or bigger structure needs to be closed. If one wants to write down the full system with all possible configurations then yes, nodes in the cut set can be in S and I or R or some other state depending on the dynamics. However, in a bottom-up approach, writing equations for singles will involve pairs and pairs will involve triples but it turns out that cut vertices in triples or bigger structures will always be in the S state. One should say that for writing down equations a bottom-up approach is used as the top-down is too complex due to the high number of equations. Oh I see, this is said in Observation 3.7. 
Given this was still included, although is addressed in an observation, we have moved this observation earlier (just before Theorem 3.5) for readers with similar thoughts.
1. Is ER a good network to test this approach on? ER will have loops and the exact equations will not be exact, or are the cut-sets identified and the closures are done around them? 
Yes, they are for precisely the reason described - the procedure preserves cycle structures by first identifying cut-vertices _then_ closing where possible. This has been tested by generating and solving full and closed systems for several sets of initial conditions and comparing the results.
1. In figure 11, I would lot the y=x diagonal to show that in most cases the points lie below it. 
(1) no such figure but (2) assuming I know which one this is, doing this looks very strange because of the much different scales in the x and y axes, hence the colours to indicate which method was faster.
7. I was surprised to see no pseudocode or code to explain how the authors come up with the computational method/framework. I would add a whole section explaining this, what language and how the code works in general terms. At the end this is the main contribution of the paper.  
  

-----
 
**Consider:**


**Source:** 


**Reference:**
