Tags : #DWFire #Tractability 
Zettel :  20230811-1407
Status : #triage 

-----

# Tractability of DWFire

**Previous note:** [202307261253 Firefighter Motivation](202307261253%20Firefighter%20Motivation.md)

-----

### Questions & thoughts:

**Proposition.** DWFire is solvable in time polynomial in the size of the input when the input graph $(G,r)$ is of maximum degree $\Delta$ if the following are true:
1. The graph is rooted at a vertex of degree $\Delta-1$,
2. At each time $t$, the cost to defend a vertex adjacent to fire is less than or equal to the cost to defend the vertex that is cheapest to defend in $G$ not adjacent to fire,
3. At each time $t$, the budget and the cost function are such that at least $\Delta-2$ vertices can be defended at each timestep,
4. At each time $t$, the cost function is such that if there are more than $\Delta-2$ unburned and undefended vertices adjacent to burning vertices, we can choose any $\Delta-2$ of them to defend.

To prove this proposition, we first prove the existence of an optimal solution and then give an optimal strategy for instances of DWFire for which the conditions above hold.

**Lemma.** Give a rooted graph $(G,r)$ with maximum degree $\Delta$ and $deg(r) \leq \Delta − 1,$ there is an optimal solution for DWFire in which the vertices defended at each timestep are all adjacent to fire.

**Proof.** Let $n=\Delta(T)-1$. If $deg(r)<n$, the lemma is trivial so we consider the case of $deg(r)=n$. Let the $n$ neighbours of $r$ be labelled $x_1, x_2, \dots, x_n$. Suppose the statement is false and let $(T, r)$ be a minimal counterexample. Suppose there is an optimal strategy in which the first vertices defended are neighbours of $r$, without loss of generality say $\{x_1, x_2, \dots, x_{n-1}\}$. Then, $(T\setminus\{x_1, \dots, x_{n-1}\}, r)$ is a smaller counterexample, a contradiction.

Let $u$ be the closest vertex to $r$ defended in an optimal strategy $\sigma$ and suppose $dist(u, r)\geq 2$. There are three cases to consider: first, if no neighbour of $u$ is burned, then $dist(u, r)=\infty$ so $\sigma$ is clearly not optimal. If a single neighbour of $u$ is burned, we could have defended this vertex instead, saving one more vertex, and $u$ would still not burn, so again $\sigma$ is not optimal. Finally, if more than one neighbour of $u$ is burned, then it is on at least one cycle which is fully burned, in which case strategy \ref{???} saves at least as many vertices as $\sigma$, so defending beside the fire performs at least as well. $\square$

Consider the following strategy for DWFire.

**Strategy.** Find some u ∈ V such that dist(u, r) = min{dist(x, r) | deg(x) ≤ 2}. Find a shortest path P from r to u. At each time, defend the vertices adjacent to a burning vertex that are neither burning themselves nor on P. If deg(u) = 2, then at turn dist(u, r) + 1, defend the neighbours of u that are not burning.

Notice that, with this strategy, precisely dist(u, r) + 1 vertices are burned. Theorem 3.5. Strategy 3.4 gives an optimal solution to instances of DWFire for

which the conditions in Proposition 3.1 hold.

Proof. By Lemma 3.3, there is an optimal solution S in which each vertex defended has a burning neighbour. For the burning process to have finished, one of two conditions have been met: either the fire spreads to a vertex of degree one, or it spreads to a vertex of degree between 2 and ∆ − 1.

In the first case, where fire spreads to a leaf vertex l of T , at least dist(r, l) + 1 vertices have been burned. In this case, Strategy 3.4 is optimal. In the second case, we defend all unburned neighbours of a vertex with degree between 2 and ∆ − 1, preventing the fire from spreading. In this case, at least dist(r, u) vertices are burned and so Strategy 3.4 does at least as well.

Since we are able to defend up to ∆ − 2 vertices adjacent to fire per turn (by assuming the conditions in Proposition 3.1), these are the only two cases for the termination of fire spreading we need consider. ■

Corollary 3.5.1. DWFire is solvable in time that is polynomial in the size of the input graph for inputs satisfying the conditions in Proposition 3.1.

-----
 
**Consider:**


**Source:** 


**Reference:** 
