Tags :
Zettel :  20240130-1908
Status : #triage 

-----

# 2N2P-SAT > CFire Reduction

**Previous note:** [[202401261523 2P2N-SAT Complete]]

-----

### Questions & thoughts:

# 2N2P-SAT Reduction to CFire

Consider the $2P2N$-SAT problem, a variant of 3-SAT for which in a formula $\phi$, every variable $x_i$ for $1\leq i \leq n, n\in \mathbb{N}$ occurs twice as a positive literal and twice as a negative literal. This is NP-complete - [link to stack exchange question.](https://cs.stackexchange.com/questions/16817/is-the-kpkn-3sat-problem-np-complete)

Instance of 2N2P-SAT: variables $x_1, \dots, x_n$ and clauses $C_1, \dots, C_m$ in 3CNF composing a formula $\phi$. Question: is there a satisfying assignment of variables such that $\phi$ evaluates to true?

Construct a graph $G$ as follows. Starting from a single vertex (the root) labelled $r$, create $2n$ paths from $r$, each of length $n+2m$. For each path $P_i$ for $1\leq i\leq n$, label the leaf $v_i^+$ and for $n+1\leq i \leq 2n$, label the vertex $v_i^-$. Then, for the terminal (leaf) vertex of each path, add two further vertices only adjacent to the leaf, label one $C_j$ and the other $C_k$, which indicate the clauses in which the literal appears ($j$ and $k$ need not be distinct). Now, let the budget $b$ be 2 and for $i\in[1,n], j\in[1,m]$, define a cost function over the vertices of $G$ as follows:
$$
c(v, t)=\begin{cases}
2 &\textrm{if } v \textrm{ is labelled literal } x_i \textrm{ and } t=i\\
1 &\textrm{if } v \textrm{ is labelled clause } C_j \textrm{ and } t=j \textrm{ or } t=2j\\
3 &\textrm{otherwise}
\end{cases}
$$

In particular, this means that we can only defend either the vertex labelled $v_i^+$ or $v_i^-$ at time $1\leq i \leq n$ and we can defend two clause vertices labelled $C_j$ at time $n\leq j \leq 2m$.

Set $k=n+3m$. Then, if there is a satisfying truth assignment for \2N2P, defending the corresponding $n$ literals from this assignment saves $n+m$ vertices in times $1\leq t \leq n$ (recall that $n$ is the number of variables) and then defends $2m$ clauses in times $n+1\leq t\leq 2m$ ensures at least $k=n+3m$ vertices are saved.

If there is a valid defence for this instance of \CFire that saves at least $k=n+3m$ vertices, there is a defence that does so by defending a single vertex on each time $1\leq t \leq n$. These correspond to literals - precisely one for each variable, due to the design of the cost function. Then, for any clause that labels at least one vertex that is saved by these defences, defend (up to) two vertices also labelled with these clauses. If all three clause vertices are saved for all clauses, clearly we have found a valid truth assignment for an arbitrary instance of \2N2P by defending vertices in the constructed instance of \CFire.
 
-----
 
**Consider:**


**Source:** 


**Reference:** 
