Tags :
Zettel :  20240126-1524
Status : #triage 

-----

# 2P2N-SAT NP Complete

**Previous note:** [[202401261439 2P2N-SAT to CFire reduction]]

-----

### Questions & thoughts:

From [link](https://cs.stackexchange.com/questions/16817/is-the-kpkn-3sat-problem-np-complete):

2P2N-3SAT is NP-complete

Take a 2P1N-SAT instance, known to be NP-hard,[^1] check the all-1 vector is not a model, then add the clause with all variables negated to the formula to transform it into a 2P2N-SAT instance.Â 

For each 1-clauseÂ (ğ‘)Â in the new 2P2N formula, replace it by the three following 3-clauses :Â (ğ‘âˆ¨ğ‘¥âˆ¨ğ‘¥)(Â¬ğ‘¥âˆ¨ğ‘¦âˆ¨ğ‘¦)(Â¬ğ‘¥âˆ¨Â¬ğ‘¦âˆ¨Â¬ğ‘¦)Â whereÂ ğ‘¥,ğ‘¦Â are fresh 2P2N variables (i.e. appearing twice as positive literals and twice as negative literals).  
For each 2-clauseÂ (ğ‘âˆ¨ğ‘)Â in the formula, replace it by the six following 3-clauses :Â (ğ‘âˆ¨ğ‘âˆ¨ğ‘¥)(Â¬ğ‘¥âˆ¨ğ‘¦âˆ¨ğ‘¦)(Â¬ğ‘¥âˆ¨Â¬ğ‘¦âˆ¨Â¬ğ‘¦)(ğ‘¥âˆ¨ğ‘§âˆ¨Â¬ğ‘§)(ğ‘§âˆ¨ğ‘¡âˆ¨Â¬ğ‘¡)(Â¬ğ‘§âˆ¨ğ‘¡âˆ¨Â¬ğ‘¡)Â whereÂ ğ‘¥,ğ‘¦,ğ‘§,ğ‘¡Â are fresh 2P2N variables.  
Keep all 3-clauses in the formula.  
For eachÂ ğ‘˜-clause (ğ‘˜>3) in the formula, transform it into a set of 3-clauses by the usual way, which does not change the number of occurences of positive (negative) literals of the takenÂ ğ‘˜-clause, but add only extra variables which appear once as a positive literal and once as a negative literal. For each such new variableÂ ğ‘¥, add the two following clauses to the 3-CNF formula :Â Â (ğ‘¥âˆ¨ğ‘¦âˆ¨Â¬ğ‘¦)Â andÂ Â (Â¬ğ‘¥âˆ¨Â ğ‘¦âˆ¨Â¬ğ‘¦)Â whereÂ ğ‘¦Â is a fresh 2P2N variable.Â 

All these transformations can obviously be done in polynomial time and transform the 2P1N-SAT instance into a 2P2N-3SAT instance. The NP-complete 2P1N-SAT problem is then reducible to the 2P2N-3SAT problem.

The extension toÂ ğ‘˜Pğ‘˜N-3SAT can be done in the same spirit (a bit longer) to prove it is NP-complete as well.

-----
 
**Consider:**


**Source:** 
[1]: Yoshinaka, R. (2005). Higher-Order Matching in the Linear Lambda Calculus in the Absence of Constants Is NP-Complete. In: Giesl, J. (eds) Term Rewriting and Applications. RTA 2005. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 3467. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-32033-3_18

**Reference:** 
